One of a metropolitan newspaper's most
important nerve centers is advertising.
The advertising director
of the Boston Herald
Traveler is George Ackerson.
George, just what
does a newspaper advertising
department do?
Jim here in this
department we sell and process
the hundreds of thousands of
ads that in a year
provide the revenue that
is necessary for a
newspaper to enable it
to give the service to
the community that we do.
I wonder without mentioning
the names of individuals
in charge thereof,
you couldn't tell us
something about the individual
departments within the advertising section.
Well, first of all, Jim,
we have the local advertising
department which services
the retail trade in
Greater Boston.
Then we have
the National Advertising Department
which has jurisdiction over advertising throughout
the United States and
all over the world for
that matter.
Then there's the classified advertising department
which handles all the
small ads from thousands
of people, lost and
found, real estate and so forth.
And finally, we
have the display department
which pours all these
together and makes them
up into the paper
that you see every day.
Well, it sounds very much
as though it's a teamwork
proposition.
Yes, it has to be Jim.
And here's the way
we break it down here.
First of all, under
me, there is Harry McGowan,
who is assistant advertising director.
Under him is Paul Roberts,
National Advertising Manager Bob Farron,
classified advertising manager, Jim Daly, who
manages the display department,
and Steve Lynch,
who is our promotion department manager,
missing from the picture
Jim is Vincent DeCane,
who is our local advertising manager.
Well how about us taking
a look at some of
the rest of this advertising operation?
Jim, this is
the classified telephone room.
In this room, these trained specialists
handle about a million
telephone calls a year.
About half of these
calls are outgoing calls
to regular classified advertisers.
The remainder are voluntary calls, incoming
from residents all over New England,
and placing ads ranging
from lost dogs and lost
cats to selling used furniture,
real estate and used cars.
We have conceived this
room, Jim, based around
a brand new private
telephone number which is
different from the newspaper's regular number.
That number is Algonquin
41234 and by calling
that number you can
get the best service in
Boston.
George, what other
improvements are there in
this new Boston
Herald Traveler building that
are likely to
help the advertising department?
Jim, I know that in
a moment or two Stan
White our production manager
is going to show
you a lot of
the new production facilities.
But right here we
have something that we have
great hopes for
in the advertising department.
This is a photon machine
which sets ads by photo
composition instead of the traditional method
of pouring molten metal
into mold so to speak.
We're experimenting with
this and doing more
and more advertising work with it.
And I think in the
future this will carry the
burden of advertising composition.
[Silence]
From the presses,
the finished newspapers go
by conveyor to the
mail room, which is adjacent
to the press room.
It's almost the size
of a football field about
the size of the
composing room and it's amazingly
automatic operation is quarterbacked by the
circulation manager of
the Boston Herald Traveler, Ben Moltzman.
Ben, what is the purpose
of every once in a
while a newspaper coming
off that belt at
an angle?
Well the 25th paper is
kicked out at the press
room level to indicate to
the mailers when it comes
up on the conveyor
that it is the 25th paper and they
take them off and lift the 25.
And those men down at
the bottom who are putting
them into bundles, how
many papers in a bundle?
As it continues its ride.
Today we have a 44
page paper and they're putting
them in bundles of 50.
Lifts of 25.
They are what we're
doing now, what we call flying
the papers onto the conveyor.
They are on their way
to a machine with a
big circle and a chute.
What's that?
This roller table here
takes each bundle down
and at the end of
the table it trips a
mechanism that the forces
the papers into
the wire-tying machine
which again is synchronized
with this motion and
is automatically tied and
ejected down the chute
by the next bundle.
We understand that the
presses can turn out newspapers
at the rate
of 42,000 an hour.
Is this room equipped
to handle that sort of
traffic?
That's what this room
is designed to handle.
It looks like an
amazingly accessible room where you
can get around.
That is the real feature
of this room, I believe,
is that particularly with
a large Sunday paper
you have to have
complete accessibility at all
times, particularly to set
up your room to ensure
that you do not
have any interruption with the
flow of your paper and
we have accomplished
this in this mail-room.
Speaking of Sunday newspapers,
I notice a group of
men working around a circular
machine over here and
they have what appears
to be the Sunday supplement.
What does that do?
Well, that is a
Sheridan stuffing machine.
We are the first
newspaper in New England to
install this machine.
It automatically feeds
all of Sunday supplements,
the roto comic and magazine,
and any other section
which we might have to
complete this supplement
for our Sunday readers
and assure them that
their paper is complete
every Sunday.
And I also understand,
Ben, that the mailing of
papers is taken care of
at the same time without
interfering with the other operations.
Yes, that's particularly
true in the morning.
We have a belt that
runs along the floor and
the process of mail,
put them in bags.
And this particular chute
here, this belt chute
delivers them to a
mail chute and deposits
them on the platform
away from the other operation.
And then they go to
the readers of the Herald
and Traveler.
And they leave our
tying machine to down these
chutes and 83 trucks
ready to dispatch them
throughout New England.
Here on the loading
platform Ben we come fairly
close to the
last step in delivery.
Do we not?
That's true Jim.
This is completely automatic.
These tables have
motorized belts which take
the papers from the
Chutes and deflect them
down these gravity feeders.
As you see there's
an arm underneath these roller
feeders that extends into the truck.
it makes it cuts down
the work for the driver.
Also we have
14 loading positions here.
and the deflectors are automatically controlled
by buttons.
These men find this
to a great advantage, particularly
when you take
the production of high-speed
presses.
Is your delivery system largely motorized?
It is today, as
you know, the train transportation
is declining.
We are now delivering
with our own equipment
within the radius of 50
from Boston.
[silence]